#Configure Org-Wide Defaults#

**Duration:** 5–10 minutes

Inherent in the design of the platform’s security model is the notion of _record ownership_, which helps to simplify the implementation of row-level least-privilege data security policies. The creator of a record _owns_ the record after creation and has full access — the owner can read, update, delete, and transfer ownership for the record.

Various data access controls determine whether org users can access records they don’t own. These controls include an object’s sharing model, role hierarchies, groups, and sharing rules.

To begin, each object has a sharing model, also known as an organization-wide default (OWD), which governs the default org-wide access levels users have to each other’s records in the object.

- With an object that uses a private sharing model, the record owner can read and manage a record, assuming that the user’s profile provides object-level access. Other users can work with records they don’t own only by other record sharing means.
- With an object that uses a public read-only sharing model, any user can read all records in the object, assuming that the user’s profile provides the Read permission and field-level access for the object.
- With an object that uses a public read/write sharing model, any user can read and write all records in the object, as permitted by the object- and field-level permissions in each user’s profile.

An object can have different sharing requirements based on the user context, so it’s very important to consider this fact when setting its OWD. A good rule of thumb is to set each object’s OWD to be as strict as necessary for the most strict user requirement, and then use sharing rules to open up access, as required.

So why can the Salesperson user see all Invoices and Line Items? To answer this, investigate the OWDs for these objects.

**Step 1: Modify the OWD for Invoices**

Complete the following steps to view the OWD for Invoices.

1. Switch back to the browser with your super-user admin login.
2. From Setup, click **Security Controls** | **Sharing Settings**.

Before continuing, notice that the OWD for both Invoice and Merchandise is set to Public Read/Write, which allows every logged–in user to read, create, update, and delete any record in these objects no matter who owns the record. Now change the OWD for both objects:

1. In the Organization-Wide Defaults section, click **Edit**.
2. For Invoice, select Private, and select Grant Access Using Hierarchies.
3. For Merchandise, select Public Read Only, and select Grant Access Using Hierarchies.
4. Click **Save**.

**Tell Me More....**

What about the Line Items object? Before you leave this page, notice that the Line Item object's OWD is "Controlled by Parent", which means it inherits the OWD of the parent Invoice object. This happened automatically because you of the master-detail relationship between the two objects. Neat, huh?

**Step 2: Test Record Access**

To see the effects of changing the OWD for Invoice, complete the following steps as a Sales Person:

1. Switch back to the browser that's logged into the DE org as the Sales Person, then click the Invoices tab.
2. Click **Go!** next to View: All.
3. Notice that the list of available invoices is empty.

Why did this change? Although Sales Person has a permission set that lets the user CRUD Invoice and Line Item records, this permission only provides the ability to CRUD records that the user _owns_. Considering that the OWD for these objects is set to Private, and the only records created were by the admin super-user, Sales Person can’t see that owner’s records. To prove that Sales Person can access only records that the user owns, complete the following steps to create a new Invoice that Sales Person owns:

1. On the Invoice detail page, click **New **, then click **Save**.
2. Click **New Line Item** and add choose some Merchandise. Click **Save**.
3. Click the Invoices tab and you’ll see there’s now an invoice there.
4. Now log out, and log back in as the Sales Manager user.
5. Repeat the steps above to prove that you cannot access Invoices and Line Items in the system that the Sales Manager user does not own due to the Private setting for these objects.
