**Tutorial 2: Use the Mobile App**

When you create an app in Salesforce, you automatically create a mobile version of the app. Indeed, you could say that every Salesforce developer is a mobile developer!

In this tutorial you access the mobile version of the app you just downloaded. Because the way you navigate apps, tabs, and records is different for mobile, your first task is to go through a quick tour of the mobile app. Along the way you’ll find out what the various parts of the mobile interface are called and how to add more functionality to them.

**Note: **For the following exercises, you need to use the downloaded mobile app on your phone. The mobile browser app doesn’t support the phone, the Today app, and other required features.

**Step 1: Create Your First Post**

When you start up the Salesforce1 mobile app for the first time, you are prompted to create your first post. **1. **Tap .

1. **Tap the Post icon and then tap the attachment icon. **
2. **Snap a selfie (or choose a photo from your library) and then add a title like “First Post!” **

**4. **Tap**Share**.

Your posts shows up on your feed, so other people that follow you can keep up with what you’re doing. The photo itself is stored as a file and can be attached to other Salesforce records as well

**Tell Me More....**

The downloadable mobile app provides the best mobile experience. However, you can also access a fully supported version of Salesforce1 from any mobile browser. Developer Edition orgs are already enabled for the mobile browser, but if you want to enable this feature for your company’s or, you need to configure that setting in the full (non-mobile)Salesforce site:

1. **From Setup click Mobile Administration &gt; Salesforce1. **
2. **Select Enable the Salesforce mobile browser app. **

Now, when you navigate to login.salesforce.com from your mobile browser, Salesforce will recognize that you’re working from a mobile device and redirect you to the Salesforce1 mobile browser app.

**Step 2: Create a Task**

Mobile apps are all about being productive in micro moments, so you can start by creating a task for yourself.

1. **In the bottom right corner, tap and the _publisher _opens. Tap New Task. **
2. **For the Subject enter ****Sync my calendar in the Today app****. **
3. **Use the calendar control to set the Due Date to Today and then tap Submit. **

When you created that task, you probably noticed some other actions you could take in the publisher. All of those actions are _global actions_. Global actions aren’t associated with any other data, and can be thought of as quick things that you’ll follow up with later. In Salesforce, you can create you own custom global actions and add them to the publisher.

**Step 3: Use the Today app**

The Today app integrates calendar events from your mobile device with your Salesforce tasks, contacts, and accounts.

1. **Tap , and then tap the Today app. **
2. **Tap Get Started. **
3. **If you get a message about using your current location, tap OK. **
4. **Choose which calendars you want Today to access, then tap Save.  
Note: You may need to give Salesforce1 access to your calendars in your device’s privacy settings before continuing. Once you’ve given Salesforce1 access to your calendars, return to the Today app and tap Get Started again. **
5. **Tap Tasks for Today and notice the task you created for yourself in the previous step. Close the task by tapping the check box. **
6. **Tap the back arrow to go back to the Today app. **

**Step 4: Navigate to a Record**

Just as in the full Salesforce site, the record view is where you’ll find most of the data you’re looking for. In the mobile app, the record view is comprised of three pages. From left to right, these are the record feed page, the record detail page, and the related information page.

1. **Tap the navigation icon , then tap Contacts. **
2. **Enter Tim Barr and then tap Search. **

1. **Notice how informative the search preview is? These are called _record preview cards_. Your search might have returned multiple preview cards, and so what’s on those cards should convey important information at a glance. You can customize record preview cards by creating a _compact layout_. **
2. **Tap the preview card to open the record. The section at the top of the screen is called the _record highlights area_. Notice the three fields under the record name, this is another place in which the compact layout is used. The first three fields of the compact layout determine what is in the record highlights area. **
3. **Pull down to perform a refresh. **
4. **Swipe up to dismiss the highlights area and view the fields displayed on a record detail page. These fields are determined  
by the page layout. As you can see, there are a lot of fields, and you can use the advanced page layout editor to modify all your page layouts to be mobile-friendly. You can also create mobile-specific layouts and then assign them to users who primarily use Salesforce from a mobile device.**

1. **Swipe left on a record detail page to get to the _record related information _page. (If you’re using a mouse, there are three small buttons on top, click the one on the right.) Different objects will have different kinds of related information. Notice in the following image that this account has Opportunities and Cases which are related to this account. In addition, this account has Open Activities, Activity History, and Campaign History you can access with a touch. You can add more related information here by editing the page layout and adding _mobile cards_. **
2. **Swipe twice to the right and you get to the feed. (Again, if you’re using a mouse, click the blue button on the left.)There’s nothing to see here yet, so tap Follow in case something noteworthy happens with Tim. **
3. **On Tim Barr’s detail page, tap Edit and add a new Home Phone for him. Tap Save. (Also notice you can Delete and Clone this record right from the detail page.) **

**Step 5: Try a Record Action**

Some types of standard objects have built-in _record actions_. Before you get started creating your own actions, it’s useful to see what the built-in actions can do.

1. **On Tim Barr’s detail page, notice the three _record actions _here. Tap the icon for Call , and notice the new Home Phone number you added. **
2. **Try some of the other record actions by tapping Email , and Map . **
3. **Now tap and you’ll see the publisher actions associated with this record. Swipe left and you’ll see more actions. These kinds of publisher actions are called object-specific actions, and they all have to do with Tim Barr. You can create your own publisher actions in Salesforce. Once you add them to the page layout for an object, they'll show up in its publisher in Salesforce1. **
4. **Tap Log a Call, and then tap Subject. Choose Call as the type of interaction. . **
5. **In the Comments section, enter ****No answer ****and then tap Submit.  
Note: Log a call actions are special kinds of publisher actions that record interactions with other people. After you create this action, notice that this record is associated directly with Tim Barr. If you don’t see a Log a Call action, you’re using a Developer Edition org that was created prior to Winter ‘14. To go any further in these tutorials, you need to get a new Developer Edition organization. **

**Tell Me More....**

Some of these actions, like **Call **will automatically be updated as more data is added to the record. You saw this already when you created a new phone number. Anyone who accesses this record automatically gets the updates that you entered, and vice versa.

**Step 6: Add a Record to Your App**

If you’ve used Salesforce before, you might be wondering where the Home tab is. Or where Salesforce apps, such as the Sales app or your custom app, appear in the Salesforce1 mobile app. The short answer is, they don’t. Instead, the mobile app figures out which _records _you look at most often. Rather than using the Force.com app menu to customize the tabs a user sees regularly, the smart search items under the **Recent **section reorder themselves based on the user’s history of recent objects.

To see how this works, navigate to a lesson and create a new record.  
**1. **Tap and scroll down and tap **More **(or **Show More **if you’re on the mobile browser version).

1. **TapLessons. **
2. **Tap New to create a lesson from the mobile device. **
3. **Name it ****Customize mobile layout****, and then Save. **

**Tell Me More....**

Each tab is represented through a menu item in the **Recent **section of the Salesforce1 navigation menu. Searches in the full Salesforce site (not the mobile app) determine what shows up here. Since your app’s Lessons tab is new and you probably haven’t searched for it, it doesn’t appear on the **Recent **section.

**Step 7: Pin Frequently Used Searches**

When you first toured the mobile app, you saw how apps and tabs don’t work the same as in the full Salesforce site. For example, the content in the Recent section of the Salesforce1 mobile app’s navigation menu represents a set of recently searched-for objects.

It would be nice if the Lessons tab showed up at the top of the recent items list, instead of tapping **More **every time you want to find it. To influence the order of items in the Recent section you can _pin _the objects on the Search Results screen in the full site. When you pin an object, it will stick to the top of the Recent section in the Salesforce1 mobile app.

1. **In the full site, type ****Customize ****in the Search box and then click Search. **
2. **In the search results, scroll down, hover to the right of Lessons, and then click the pin icon. **

**3. **Go back to your mobile app (you may need to refresh by pulling down) and notice that Lesson is now pinned to the top of the Recent section.

**Tell Me More....**

Pinning a search term is an easy way to provide better productivity, but that’s really just the beginning. In this next section you’ll see how to use page layouts, compact layouts, and mobile cards to optimize the experience for mobile users.
