**Tutorial 3: Optimize for the Mobile Display**

A well-designed page layout can often be used by both desktop and mobile devices. However, some objects may still have so many fields that viewing the details can be difficult on a mobile screen. Moreover, mobile users often have different jobs and priorities than desktop users, and so it’s useful to create a mobile-specific page layout. A mobile-optimized layout can be assigned to different user profiles, so that people who primarily use a phone are assigned the mobile layout, while desktop users would be assigned the standard layout.

In this tutorial you learn how to do the following:

- Modify an existing page layout so that it’s optimized for a mobile device — If your users access your app from desktop and mobile devices, then you might want to optimize your page layouts so that they work with various form factors. However, if your users are entirely or mostly mobile, they might find a new mobile-specific layout is more productive. 
- Create a compact layout specifically for mobile devices — Compact layouts determine the fields that show up in an object’s record highlights area, and an object’s record preview cards (mobile cards that display as record items in list views). Compact layouts are a great way to display a record's key fields at a glance. 
- Add mobile cards to the related information page — Mobile cards can show lookup information or Visualforce pages. 
- Enable notifications — Notifications are a great way to stay on top of what’s important to you. If you're using the Salesforce1   

downloadable app, you’ll receive notifications when someone mentions you in a post, or when you receive an approval request.   
**Note: **There’s another kind of mobile layout called a global publisher layout, which determines where global actions go. You’ll learn about that later after you create a global action.   
**Step 1: Create a Page Layout for a Mobile User Profile **  

For this step, imagine the regular working day of a mobile technician. The technician is either on site or in a vehicle, and so a mobile phone is his primary means of accessing Salesforce. While working, the technician doesn’t need every last detail of the businesses he visits, just the ones that are important to him. 

1. **On your mobile phone, tap , and then Accounts (you may need to tap More to find Account). **
2. **In the Search bar, type ****Burlington ****and then tap Search. **
3. **Tap on the _record preview card _(the search result item) and take a look at the Burlington Textiles account detail page. **
4. **Scroll down and you’ll see there are a lot of fields, really too many for a mobile user to use efficiently. Time to fix all that. **
5. **In the full Salesforce site, navigate to an existing account by clicking the (+) tab and then Accounts. **
6. **In the View drop-down list, select All Accounts. **
7. **Click the Burlington Textiles account. Notice that there’s a lot of information on this tab, which is why it was a challenge to navigate on a small screen. **

1. **Click Setup, click Customize &gt; Accounts &gt; Page Layouts and then click New. **
2. **Name the page layout ****Account Mobile Layout ****and then Save. **
3. **Add a few fields that are important to mobile users. Drag the Account Site, Shipping Address, and Phone fields onto the  
Account Detail area of the page layout. **
4. **While on site, a mobile technician might need quick access to existing cases, and it could help to have a list of contacts  
there. Click the Related Lists category and drag Cases and Contacts to the Related Lists section. Related lists show up on the record related information page in Salesforce1. When a mobile user using this page layout navigates to an account’s related information page, they’ll see preview cards containing brief information about the cases and contacts for that location. **
5. **Click Save and then No when asked if you want to override users’ customized related lists. **
6. **Now you need to assign the mobile-optimized page layout to your user profile. Click Page Layout Assignment and then  
Edit Assignment. **

**14. **Click **System Administrator**, which is your user profile.  
**15. **In the Page Layout to Use drop-down list, select **Account Mobile Layout **and then **Save**.

Because you’re logged in as the System Administrator, when you access the Account object, you’ll do so through the mobile-optimized layout.

1. **Try it now by going to the mobile browser app and tap (click) Accounts in the sidebar. **
2. **Since you just accessed the Burlington Textiles account from the full Salesforce site, you should see that in the Recent  
Accounts list. Tap that account. **
3. **Notice the fields you customized on the page layout, this is a lot easier to manage. **
4. **Swipe left to see the related information page and notice the Cases and Contacts you added. **

**Tell Me More....**

Typically, after creating a page layout for mobile users, you’d add it to a mobile-user’s profile. To keep things simple (so that you don’t have to log out and switch users to see the new layout), you simply added the page layout to your own System Administrator profile instead.

**Step 2: Display Key Fields Using Compact Layouts**

In the previous tutorial you learned how page layouts can be used to optimize a layout for mobile users. However, page layouts aren’t the only thing used to help customize how your data appears in a mobile environment. Salesforce1 uses _compact layouts _to display a record's key fields at a glance. You don’t need to create compact layouts for Salesforce1, as the system will generate a default compact layout for all standard and custom objects. However, just as you saw with page layouts, a custom compact layout can help your mobile users be even more productive.

1. **On your mobile phone, tap , and then Accounts. Because you accessed Burlington Textiles already, you should see the search result on the Recent Accounts page. (If you don’t see Burlington Textiles here, type ****Burlington ****in the Search bar, then tap Search.) **
2. **Tap on the record preview card and take a look a the fields on the Burlington Textiles account detail page. The name and the first three fields in the _record highlights area _are determined by the compact layout. **
3. **Back in the full Salesforce site, click Setup &gt; Customize &gt; Accounts. **
4. **Click Compact Layouts and then New. **
5. **In the Label field, enter ****Account Compact Layout ****and then press the Tab key. **
6. **Try using some different fields by moving ****Account Name****, ****Customer Priority****, and ****SLA ****to the Selected list, and then  
Save. **
7. **Now you need to set the compact layout as the primary. Click Compact Layout Assignment. **
8. **Click Edit Assignment and select the compact layout you just created and then Save. **
9. **Now go to the mobile browser tab and tap an Account record. Refresh the screen by pulling down, and you should see the  
fields you defined in the record highlights section. **

**Tell Me More....**

- Compact layouts aren’t just for mobile. When accessing Salesforce from a desktop browser, compact layouts determine which fields appear in a Chatter feed when you create a record using an action in the publisher. 
- The record name and the first three fields you assign to your compact layout populate the _record highlights _section at the top of each record view. The number of fields that are shown in a compact layout depends on the screen size of the device you are using. You can add more fields to the compact layout, but typically only three will show up on a mobile phone. 
- The fields you define on the compact layout also determine what users see in the _record preview cards _that are returned from search results.   
**Step 3: Add Mobile Cards to the Record Related Information Page **  

You’ve already seen the related information page when you toured the mobile app for the first time. You navigate to the related information page by swiping left on the detail page for a record. You can add other kinds of related information using _mobile cards_. There are two kinds of mobile cards, _related lookup cards _and _Visualforce page cards_.   

In this step, you add a related lookup card to the Account object. Account already has a lookup field that’s automatically generated, Last Modified By, so in the interest of brevity, you can use that standard field. 

**1. **From Setup, open the page layout for Account by navigating to **Customize **&gt; **Account **and click **Page Layout**. 

Step 4: Enable Notifications

1. **Click the Edit link next to Account Mobile Layout. **
2. **In the Page Layout Editor, click the Expanded Lookups category. **
3. **Drag Last Modified By to the Mobile Cards section and then Save. **
4. **To test it out, go back to your mobile device and look at an account. **
5. **Swipe left to get to get to the related information page and you’ll see the mobile card you added. **

**Tell Me More....**

- Once you’ve enabled a Visualforce page for mobile, you can use the page layout editor to add the pages to the Mobile Cards section in the same way. 
- Unlike compact layouts, mobile cards only appear in the Salesforce1 mobile interface.   
**Step 4: Enable Notifications **  

You probably receive alerts on your phone from apps, even when you aren’t using that app. These are push notifications. If you're using the Salesforce1 downloadable app, you can enable push notifications and then receive updates when someone mentions you in a post, or when you receive an approval request. 

To enable notifications:

1. **Switch over to the full Salesforce site and click Setup. **
2. **Click Mobile Administration &gt; Notifications &gt; Settings. **
3. **Select both Enable in-app notifications and Enable Push Notifications. **
4. **ClickSave. **

If you’re in the full Salesforce site, you receive notifications when someone posts to your profile or mentions you in a post. All notifications, including push notifications, show up in the notification tray.
